um  there's something to be said for getting  to grips with the primary sources of  things  in politics in religion in the reading  and writing history  it's impossible for a secondary source  to communicate  the stupidity and madness  of a particular political leader  and of the largely  silent followers who place their trust  in that political leader there is no  rational account of the philosophy and  religious views of adolf hitler for  example  that can make on you the same impression  as really reading for yourself seeing  for yourself hearing for yourself the  madness and stupidity of adulthood  really really people who think of  themselves as the harshest critics of  adolf hitler  inevitably  end up flattering  german fascism just by  reinterpreting and restating the  arguments of the time in a form that's  rational and comprehensible  to an audience today  um  what they were saying was irrational  and it is now  incomprehensible and it's important to  take some time to read the original  sources and get a feeling for the  madness that became  mainstream politics  for a while  [Laughter]  uh i could say the same about numerous  political movements that have come and  gone and numerous political movements  that still occupy and dominate a large  part of the earth's surface now in the  same way  i think i need to take a moment to read  to you to share with you the madness  of the original primary source documents  of what it is  that the communist party of china is  saying today china in just the last few  days december 4th and december 5th of  2021  published three reports in close  succession  all three very much have the imprimatur  of the communist party on them they're  all being actively promoted by the  communist party's state-controlled media  and organs  um the first which is the closest to  being a formal publication of the  communist party itself  is a defense of and a redefinition of  democracy in china so that's a pro-china  statement about democracy the second and  the third  make explicit what is implicit in the  first of the three documents they are an  attack on  american democracy they're an attempt to  demolish or keep scorn on the american  ocean democracy this is a coordinated  media  campaign when the first of these  publications came out and i didn't eat  set aside time to read the whole thing  immediately  i cleared my schedule to deal with this  uh it was perceived by the press as  being  a response to  joe biden's ongoing campaign  to gather together  world leaders  under the umbrella of democracy to  organize them in a fight for democracy  china is interpreting this pro-democracy  movement that can genuinely be said to  be  an original initiative of joe biden it  does not go back to bill clinton it does  not go back to obama it certainly  doesn't have any continuity with the  former policy of uh donald trump  this has been interpreted as  anti-chinese more than it is  pro-democracy and of course you know the  chinese cannot be wrong about everything  there's plenty of things to write about  i'm a harsh critic of chinese communism  i'm obviously going to be a critic of  what china has said here in defining and  redefining the meaning of the word  democracy but no the chinese are not  wrong about everything what joe biden is  doing and saying right now about  democracy  he has curiously  little interest in the future of  democracy on the island of cyprus  he has very little interest  in the future of democracy in  cuba  he has very little interest in the  future of democracy in north korea he  has very little interest in the future  of democracy in syria he is very  interested in the future democracy in  libya or north africa generally there  are many many places in the world where  joe biden has not taken interest in  democracy and the most cynical of  commentators might well point out that  joe biden perhaps does not have enough  interest in the future of democracy  within the united states of america the  future of democracy in florida the  future democracy in uh  i don't know  the california system of primaries in  alaska you name it there are a lot of  problems a lot of problems with uh  uh you know democracy united states that  he could be using uh his position of  power and fame as the president states  to to draw attention to and he's not all  right  so  there is no doubt that  joe biden's current  global conference junket schedule  is an anti-china offensive  you guys might not have noticed this it  may not have been mentioned in the news  at all  where you are wherever you live but the  vice president of the united states was  sent to  vietnam  to propose a strategic alliance  between the united states and vietnam  now if you don't know strategic means  military i mean the word strategic in  this kind of diplomatic  uh  context  it means guns and bullets and missiles  and tanks and airplanes okay  i know i admit that is so hard to  believe i'm just googling it  august 24th 2021 vice president kamala  harris was in hanoi  as part of a high-stakes visit to  southeast asia et cetera et cetera now  was that front page news  where you were oh okay okay so is this  about is this about democracy um  is joe biden interested in democracy in  vietnam  is joe biden interested in democracy in  the philippines  is joe biden interested in democracy in  thailand in myanmar  in laos in cambodia  no  all right so the biggest concession i  can give to the chinese side here it's  good that we're doing it up front in  this video in this live stream  the most pro-china thing i can say is  that yes indeed joe biden's arguments  for summits for military alliance for  the advancement of democracy is  transparently and cynically an  anti-china  alliance and i have to say  as cynical as i am  i was shocked  that  biden sent the vice president to vietnam  to offer that that alliance  there is no reason for that i mean  there's no justification for that and  the principal position would be to say  no what's good for the goose is good for  the gander what's good for china is good  for north korea what's good for china is  good for vietnam if you're  anti-communist and pro-democracy in  china you have to be anti-communist and  pro-democracy in vietnam you can't just  play favorites and have a strategic  alliance with vietnam because they  happen to be anti-chinese  that's deeply morally incoherent sorry i  said morally and coherent how about we  just say evil  [Laughter]  right now  again the main topic of this video is  chinese democracy  the redefinition of democracy by the  government of china in 2000 and the last  few days of 2021 at the open of of 2022.  it's most we're going to talk about here  but i would point out joe biden can do  much more  with the allies he already has for the  sake of democracy and also just for the  sake of expanding his anti-chinese  alliance whether sincerely or cynically  all right joe biden already has the only  ally he needs in india okay india is  the strategic partner america needs  vietnam is of no significance and no  consequence whatsoever compared to india  and on the country strategically we're  using this in the  diplomatic sense of term strategically  it is only a weakness to be in an  alliance with  with vietnam it opens you up to more  costs it opens up another flank you got  to defend yourself on frankly you would  be much better off doubling down on or  quadrupling down on an alliance with  india and adjacent powers you know how  far can you go in an alliance with sri  lanka how far can you go in alliance  with nepal and build india into your  aircraft carrier against china  that's  power that strength and the people of  india not just the government the people  of india are willing to fight and die  for you against china they really are  they're mobilized uh the people of texas  maybe not so much how popular is  chopin's anti-china agenda with the  people the united states of america i  would guess you know it's lukewarm at  best the support of that policy now you  know you can go into other examples how  much uh  political capital does joe biden have in  japan how much does he have in australia  what's the depth of support for his  policy in japan and australia well  there's a lot of work to be done and yes  it is  from my perspective it was a really  regrettable decision to extend this to  to include vietnam and you know  uh maybe it wasn't front page news where  you were  but there's a little country with more  than 90 million people called myanmar  getting on i think myanmar 70 million  i always overestimate the population of  myanmar what is the population of  myanmar whoa  54 million  look at that good thing i did a factor  thailand must be above 79. okay thailand  is right at 70 million vietnam 97  million myanmar weighed on it at 50  million in change okay okay  coziest little place on earth myanmar in  case you hadn't heard there were a whole  lot of people there who are willing to  stand up and fight and die for the  future of democracy in their country joe  biden was not interested now i wish i  could tell you that the american  people's opinion matter i wish i could  tell you even that the members of  congress or the senate mattered really  one man's opinion matters that's joe  biden that's the way foreign policy  works in the united states america the  21st century so the fact that joe biden  personally doesn't care about cuba and  doesn't care about myanmar is definitive  and that's it and there is not going to  be any debate in the house of congress  or senate nobody  among the general population united  states there's no particular yearning to  bring democracy to myanmar okay but if  you are in a strategic alliance with  india against china  india basically regards myanmar  as um a province of india that has  broken away through accidents of history  he tell you this guys however and  sincerely it's something actually the  muslims and the hindus have in common in  india you might be surprised but both  the muslims and the hindus in both india  and in pakistan they seem to regard the  separate existence of myanmar as some  kind of  accident of history that should be  reversed that this has no right to exist  this separate entity okay well you know  what i think india would be quite  interested in expanding its sphere of  power and influence to include myanmar  the greatest impossible there was a  there was an opportunity there so  why are you  selling out to vietnam why are you  trying to include vietnam in a  pro-democracy alliance when vietnam  isn't just undemocratic and  anti-democratic but it's also a  communist party state joe biden has made  some of the wrong choices here already  and that may foretell you know  really grim a chapter of american  history to come and of world history to  come and there's no doubt  in case you hadn't heard china is more  than one billion people the future  the next few chapters of the political  history of china are going to be  tremendously important for the whole  world for europe for africa for south  america there is no part of the world  that is untouched by uh chinese politics  and over the next 20 years there is no  part of the world that's going to be  untouched by the long-term consequences  of the decisions being made right now by  one man  and interestingly i mean many of us  presume  that the next president united states  will be kemal harris it is significant  that she is directly seeing and touching  and smelling  this alliance as it folds that she she  is personally going to vietnam she is  personally in contact certainly with  political leaders from india too that  she is getting a sense of it now  of course she could change direction 180  degrees she could be elected and have a  totally different approach to foreign  policy we don't know  but it's certainly a case where  i mean in this specific aspect of  foreign policy  uh joe biden is actively training and  preparing kamala harris to to carry the  torch take over uh leadership of  american foreign policy and what could  be at this point called  world democratic strategy the world  strategy for democratization now i've  i've made videos in the past talking  about the history of this  but very briefly in case you didn't know  china became the most powerful country  in the world today through its alliance  with the united states of america an  alliance that lasted roughly from 1971  to  2021 and that alliance i mean again all  this stuff is kind of hard to believe  why america was in an alliance with  communist china yes  and the unique historical figure of  richard nixon was a crucial part of that  and um that alliance was partly an  alliance against the soviet union  against russia  but it was also partly an alliance  against india so that couldn't have  happened at any other time that was the  product of the unique stupidity of  richard nixon and then that carried on  and on and on so if you look up the  photographs why do we have photographs  of bill clinton you know visiting the  great wall of china why do we have all  these friendship gestures why do we have  all these attempts to reconcile enough  peace with china at a time when instead  i mean under bill clinton you could have  had closer friendship and economic  cooperation with russia now you could  have had closer economic cooperation and  friendship with brazil or colombia i  mean there were other places that you  could manufacture  china  you could manufacture the type of cheap  plastic commodities that we now  associate with the yangtze river delta  in china the pearl river delta these  kinds of places you know you know  there's there was nothing inevitable  back in the 1990s about this uh  you know economic and political  cooperation between the united states  and china it was a choice and it was a  choice that was first made by richard  nixon and that's successive presidents  including uh you know really i feel the  most  the most memorable twist in the tale is  is bill clinton that they embraced the  industrialization of china as if this  were in america's long-term economic  political and foreign policy interests  you tell me  today though what we're discussing is  really the beginning of a new phase in  china's political history okay  the narrative  during the bill clinton era  was that china was  not democratic  but that it wasn't  anti-democratic that china was merely a  country that was not democratic yet  but  as it went through a process of economic  development they would become more  sophisticated more affluent more  powerful  and they would inexorably and inevitably  catch up with europe  catch up with the western world however  you want to put it in becoming a real  democracy now  this is stupid  but it's not insane  look at south korea south korea had been  a military dictatorship that barely had  a few scraps of democracy to justify its  claim to the name and over time south  korea over decades it wasn't wasn't that  quick a transition south korea went from  being a kind of phony democracy or paper  uh democracy to being a real democracy  in every sense the word okay  south korea was anti-communist  i do not think that's a minor footnote  in the history of south korea right they  were a dictatorship but they were an  anti-communist distinction that made  that transition successfully  taiwan  similar story i have a blog post i could  give you guys where i actually charted  out i should give you a chronological  chart of when these countries made their  transition to democracy and it normally  was step by step it wasn't kind of just  one single wave of legal reforms taiwan  at one time  taiwan was ruled by a military  dictatorship it was an anti-communist  military dictatorship that kind of  barely had any claim to being a  democracy there was some you know some  trappings of democracy and they made the  transition step by step to being a  country with a robust  free press elections real in every sense  both south korea and taiwan they really  are today democracies now japan  it's a little bit different it's a  little bit  but still you know  it's fair to say  that china was surrounded by  positive examples of the transition from  fake democracy to real democracy so  it wasn't completely insane for bill  clinton personally or for  politically engaged people of bill  clinton's generation to optimistically  imagine that what had happened in south  korea what had happened in taiwan would  happen in china next and by the way when  i say china was surrounded by  democracies never forget  they have a land border with india  they also have a land border with  mongolia  all right and mongolia made the  transition from communism to democracy  and they did it they set the record it  was the most rapid most successful  transition basically of any  post-communist country in their world  mongolia has a lot of problems it's not  paradise it's not but they have  elections they have newspapers that can  complain about corrupt politicians they  have all the basic fundamentals of a  functioning democracy now  depending on how naive you are at that  time if you were alive while bill  clinton was president some of you were  very small children  some of you weren't born yet well you  know the other the other domino to fall  here of course is the soviet union that  to some extent people wanted to believe  that what had already happened in south  korea was now going to happen in russia  on a massive scale and you can debate to  what extent russia has successfully made  a transition to democracy most people  would give it at least a maybe a five  out of ten maybe russia is no longer a  communist dictatorship it is also not  what we would call a legitimate  democracy nevertheless  so you can say there was some sincere  optimism uh on the american side  as we made the transition from one  period of the sort of starkly evil  alliance between nixon and mao zedong  and if you don't think it's evil take a  look at the history of cambodia take a  look at what the americans were  supporting in cambodia america supported  the khmer rouge they supported pol pot  they actively armed paul pott and  trained his soldiers provided them with  bombs and machetes and guns and  everything else um you know the united  states did a lot of really evil things  as part of this alliance with china  but they transitioned to this period of  misplaced optimism  what i would basically call the clinton  years oh well if we help  china become wealthy  we can just leave them to become  democratic now there were some very  palpable uh political and legal  instruments  involved in this transition this wasn't  purely a matter of editorials in the new  york times or what have you there was  the question of the united states of  america granting  most favored nation status to china it  was so odious to refer to this as most  favoritation status that they started  using the term permanent normal trade  relations there was the matter of  admitting china to international trade  groups and and lobbies like a world  trade organization of integrating it  into the  trade system of world capitalism the  import and export system and there were  questions raised in the paperwork for  those things about exactly what china's  political system was and what it would  be  and at that time what you'll find when  you read what the chinese side says for  themselves and basically the american  side repeats it is well you know  china has a long history of thousands of  years  these last few centuries china has  struggled against enormous odds they  were conquered by the japanese uh they  were destroyed by war and famine  and you know um  as material conditions improve democracy  and political rights are only going to  get better and better  what's this very vaguely stated belief  in transition  without ever stating what it is a  transition from and what is the  transition to you could call this  transitionism  i said before  if you could put yourself in the frame  of mind of someone who was only thinking  about the positive examples south korea  taiwan  then you might  you know and also perhaps if you  personally stood to make millions of  dollars  by manufacturing disney toys in the  pearl river harbor you know like people  got incredibly rich off of the uh  economic cooperation with the united  states and china including companies  like apple corporation i mean  practically everything in your apartment  right now is made in china we're partly  made in china there's all this unique  you know corporate cooperation with the  united states and china that emerge that  emerged out of a strategic alliance  between nixon and mao zedong  that's you know political conditions  form the basis for changes in  economic conditions and again there was  nothing inevitable with that apple could  have been manufacturing electronics in  brazil they didn't have to do it in  china you could have had economic  development in brazil instead you could  have had american and european companies  working with  throw a dart at the map of africa there  are all kinds of places that could have  taken on this role that china took on  and a lot of them had advantages over  china because among other things they  weren't run by an insane communist  dictatorship that has nuclear arms and  is in constant a constant state of  conflict with your real allies people  like japan next door and so on there  would be advantages brazil is not going  to cause those kinds of problems for you  so you know there were alternatives  there was nothing inevitable uh about  that it was a series of political  decisions that had economic consequences  tremendous tremendous for far-reaching  long-term  uh confluences  um  where was i  take a moment here to look at the  comments  so yes uh desu kafal says  um  this is related this discussion is  related to the text that isil was  showing on instagram indeed so if you  guys do not follow me on instagram  uh  what is my name there is it about sale  or as amazon  yeah  i can give you guys the link to my  instagram i do generally  share the links to these live streams  before they've started  and uh  i do also share screenshots of the books  i'm reading short passages just thing uh  quotations that have circled things that  are especially uh worth thinking about  or worth talking about  okay so  sorry i am actually seeing these other  some intelligent questions  and comments but to return to where i  where i left off turning my throat  although it would be possible for  someone who was a contemporary of bill  clinton to be optimistic about this  supposed transition in china given what  had already happened south korea taiwan  and other carefully selected positive  examples there were also  negative examples right  saudi arabia  saudi arabia went from being one of the  poorest countries in the world to one of  the wealthiest countries in the world  right tremendous expansion i mean  there's no way to quantify the  transformation you're talking about in  saudi arabia all right  it is a quantitative and qualitative  transformation of the whole country all  right  do you think that the increasing wealth  of saudi arabia has brought about  increasing democratization why would  these things be related that way more  wealth can mean more power in the hands  of the government and the government  having a greater ability to repress  and control its people there's no reason  to presume that as china became  wealthier  the communist party became more powerful  and its ability to reach people you know  they were all kind of saudi arabia is  not the only example there was  fundamentally no reason to believe the  mythos of the the bill clinton era that  china sort of like a snowball rolling  down a hill that china was going to just  move away from communism and nothing the  chinese communist party itself said you  know indicated that now i have lived in  china  and i have to say before xi jinping  there were people who assumed china  would go through some similar kind of uh  opening up process i mean it had to be  stated very vaguely the china was going  to go through should we say a glasnost  process on some kind of um  shedding of  of uh communist ideology was what's  going to go on discarding of obviously  all of you was going on i was in china  in 2007 2008 when the olympics happened  and i can tell you i mean you know there  are no surveys there are no polls but i  can tell you the people of china were  shocked  at how repressive their own government  was they were shocked and that shows the  kind of limited optimism  from say 2001 to 2008 that a lot of  people in china encouraged by what they  saw on tv frankly you know the communist  party controls the tv they were often  being told that they were in a new and  more liberal era you know they were  being told vaguely that china was living  through a  through through a new more permissive  era and obviously in some ways it was  just the transition to capitalism  capitalism under communist party  dominion you know  um and the overall increase in wealth  and so on but  you know i can really say the people of  china  were aghast  at what happened politically within  china in those years 2007 2008 it was an  unwanted reminder that china is not a  normal country that china is this  unbelievably of oppressive dictatorship  that it's a place where no freedom of  speech no freedom to protest exists  whatsoever  um  this is a distant memory and i've never  i've never found the news footage again  uh  somewhere on youtube you can probably  find this guys if you want if you want  to you can you can email it to me  there was some kind of complaint put to  the government of china and i think the  complaint had some weight behind it  because of the the ioc the international  olympic committee so you guys may not  know this but quite a lot of political  pressure is exerted on countries by  sports organizations  but somebody somewhere whether it was  attached to the united nations or the  ioc or both or many of the governments  they said well look it's not really  acceptable to us that there's nowhere  that people are allowed to protest  politically during the holding of the  the olympics so someone found some  justification that you know like some  brazilians might have flown all the way  to beijing to see the olympics and they  might want to protest while they're here  or they might want to see a protest over  here that this was somehow part of the  olympic spirit now again i i admit it's  not just that i don't know it may be  impossible to know exactly who was  leaning on the chinese government saying  there should be some  some permission this way and the chinese  government there's this was not a parody  this was not satire this was not  self-parody they set up a tiny fenced  area i would say it was a fenced area  the size of a basketball court so in  beijing there was one area of open  concrete with soldiers with guns  standing around it and you know a  cyclone fence and some kind of padding  set up too and i was like okay you want  to protest you want a fruit of speech  you can stand inside this prison you can  stay inside  and you know  i remember the journalists standing  there  you just can't you can't believe it it's  surreal it's so ridiculous you know but  you are is the chinese government doing  this in order to make themselves look  bad like you know like how you know it  seems like a  sketch comedy from  saturday live or something you know it's  it's so ridiculous anyway yeah in case  you guys have forgotten or didn't know  in the first place  um  just in the months leading up to the  beijing olympics there were protests in  tibet  protests for tibetan independence  protests for the future of the language  protests for democracy in tibet to some  extent i wouldn't say they were narrowly  or exclusively pro-democracy for us but  they were  tibetan indigenous protests and the  government of china stamped down on that  with uh you know  the biggest boot they could find in the  military locker  it was outright old-fashioned communist  dictatorship tactics give no give no  quarter  now i don't support tibetan independence  just mentioned i actually don't  sympathize with that i have very little  sympathy  for tibetan buddhists or tibetan  nationalism you might be surprised i'm  against communism and i'm pro-democracy  but i actually don't really favor going  back to the political traditions of the  dark ages and i also don't think it  really makes sense to organize national  units uh you know governments whatever  you want to say around uh traditions  religious traditions from the dark ages  uh  this is very difficult to talk about in  some parts of the world and easy and  others people in the united states of  america and australia countries like  this where genocide wiped the you know  ancient borders from the map you know  what are the borders of arkansas i mean  this is obviously completely modern  artificial borders drawn on a map well  in many parts of the world the  distinctions relate to for example  sectarian differences between sunni and  shiite people and that's where they've  been for hundreds of years you know  the the persistence of borders the  connection between borders and  nationality and modern governments and  ancient religious nations this is  something i have a rather nihilistic  view of you may or may not be surprised  to know nevertheless um  at that time the people of china got a  reminder that the tiananmen square  massacre was not so long ago that most  of the people in charge are literally  the same people who are in charge trying  to attend square massacre they don't  have any they don't have any democracy  and they don't have any right even to to  complain now i just mentioned um  in these documents that have inspired me  to make this video  a new timeline is actually proposed by  the government of china that i have  never once seen in print before and i've  read a lot of academic peer-reviewed  articles about politics and democracy in  china that we've just been published in  the last few years  so  i was at university victoria 2015  some of that but i mean in 2015 i was  really reading the stuff in the library  both things published by  the government of china and by the sort  of people with phds who are in their  living doing commentary and analysis  about uh what's going on in economics  china so i never once saw the year 2012  referred to as a turning point in the  history of chinese never once  the new propaganda line that came out  december 4th and december 5th 2021 the  brand new  you know telling of history by the  comments part of china it states that a  new era of chinese democracy began  almost 10 years ago in the year 2012.  that's when china really made this  transition to be a democratic country so  this is part of how the propaganda gets  into just outright fiction  obviously one way to respond to china is  just ask questions well when are you  going to make this transition when are  you going to make the transition to  democracy the transition that people  were hopeful for back in the bill  clinton era and one possible answer is  that they already made it that they  already have democracy they already have  all the democracy they're ever going to  get and this is a new myth this is a new  lie this is a new form of propaganda  where now they're saying back in 2012  that's when we made the decision and  nobody noticed you know now i just point  out um  you know  i think there is an argument that if you  compare the year 2008 when i was  mentioning this kind of frightening  wake-up call chinese people had in 2008  how little democracy if you compare 2008  to 2022 they they there may be some  truth to this it may be that there is a  little bit more of freedom of speech and  democracy in china when i was in china  in that era 2007-2008  uh sorry i'd have to go check exactly  exactly what the dates were doesn't  let's just say 2008 you know um  you couldn't access wikipedia  on the internet in china now if someone  else disagrees with me maybe they were  in a different province you know that is  different like sometimes there's more  censorship in some parts of china and  then in the most liberal places like  shanghai some of those cities high-tech  cities maybe the internet was less  censored but i have to tell you where i  was in china  the censorship of the internet was  absolute so guys i'm i apologize for you  you've heard this story before it's  possible i've never told this story  before  um  most chinese people are unaware of how  tightly the internet is censored there  because they never push their luck  i had one professor  so i was myself a professor at  university in china that time and  another professor  he was he was a real professor with a  phd but i got paid more than him my  status in this university was professor  and i was the most highly paid professor  there and so i know it's ridiculous but  rank has its privileges anyway i was  talking to this other professor he said  hey do you know anything about this  issue from political history and i said  oh yeah i've done all kinds of research  on that in fact i've written published  articles about it you know it's a  particular issue in political history so  this year and he was he was genuinely  saying okay great great you know can you  send me your article as a pdf you know  obviously by email us yeah sure  and i think i said the time i said i can  send it  but i'm not sure you'll receive it i was  like  what do you mean i said you know don't  you know every email you send here every  single email you send in china is  censored you know and if you send an  email that just has certain keywords in  it that email was not going to arrive at  the other end and he didn't believe me  so away sometime goes by and i met up  with him again  and he said again he was genuinely  interested in reading this  article had written about history of  politics what do you want to say  it had to do with i think the  relationship between china and cambodia  one of those topics i've done honestly i  forget but it's something i had done a  lot of research on written about  and he said hey look you know you never  sent me that  that pdf you never sent me the article  you wrote it's like oh no i sent it  [Laughter]  you didn't receive it  you know the extent of censorship and  state control it's not just public  protest it's not just articles published  in the newspaper  private communication one person would  have received this email nobody else  that's unacceptable that's control so  when you have no freedom of speech it is  zero in china and of course you can be  punished they didn't bother in this case  to punish me uh and i have a longer  story about an email that i sent from my  email in china to one of my professors  in canada and it did have a whole bunch  of political keywords because it was  actually i was proposing  theses i could write my phd about i  could do a phd thesis about this that  phd level research and those were all  those were about you know  communist politics in china from an  anti-communist perspective  and um  i was in effect punished for that  uh i actually don't know if the  professor in canada received the email  or not i never asked it's quite it's  quite possible the email also didn't  ever materialize at the other end we had  that guy had a lot to talk to him about  so  never never told that story either so um  yeah  my point is this  there may be a little bit of truth to  this new myth that they've now decided  since the year 2012 what isn't isn't  acceptable  what is and isn't democratic enough to  suit china but the frightening thing is  this new version of the propaganda has a  sense of finality to it the transition  is over there will be no transition well  now from my perspective there never was  a transition but they are telling you  loud and clear the mythology of the bill  clinton era is the thing of the past  here's the new mythology and that is  that china already is a democracy by its  own definition it already has become a  democracy and in fact they are claiming  that china's definition of democracy is  more legitimate than the united states  of america they're claiming that america  is a fake democracy and that china is a  true democracy  great  i can take i can take uh i can endure  flattery uh someone called ben in the  comment section said quote this is the  most honest and important channel on the  platform  thanks ben you know uh you flatter me  but i i sadly i feel i have very little  competition i wish i could respond to  this flattering comment from the  audience by telling you oh no no i can  name five other great youtube channels  that talk about the politics of china i  can't i wish i could respond by saying  oh no no i know five other great youtube  channels that talk about  hollywood mainstream movies and i can't  five other channels that talk about the  politics of the vegan movement five of  the channels talk about game of thrones  like any of the subjects on this channel  sadly i feel i have very few  contemporaries and really no um  really no competition so yeah  i'm just reading your comments  okay  interesting provocative comment from  jacob jacob says quote  excluding the biden white house and the  harris presidency which may follow is  another u.s china economic alliance  possible  as america continues to look inward and  has a less principled foreign policy so  jacob i think you know that the answer  is yes it's possible it's totally  possible  i would say further  very cynically i think that the  political elite in germany is banking on  it i think probably the political elite  in a lot of other countries in europe i  know switzerland uh  spain of greece um  you know that probably if you go through  europe government by government a lot of  them are taking the attitude like okay  joe biden's gonna play this game maybe  it's going to last four years maybe it's  going to last eight years  but the high-tech companies of germany  want to keep making money manufacturing  mobile phones in china they want to  continue importing solar panels from  china they want to continue for example  the strategic cooperation between  universities uh research institutes but  manufacturing most of all uh between  europe and china and they're making a  lot of money and they have no reason to  change now again all those things  you could do them in india  and  there were a lot of ways in which  economic development and cooperation  would be easier with india than china i  have if you guys don't know i've studied  the chinese language i have studied the  languages of india i'm getting to hear  exactly what my involvement was  it is much much easier for someone who  grew up speaking any language indigenous  to the indian subcontinent anyone who  was born and raised in india speaking  any of those languages whether it is  tamil a dravidian language or a north  indian language whether it is uh marathi  or you know punjabi anyone who grew up  speaking a language native to india it  is so much easier for them to learn  english than it is for a chinese person  to learn english and it is so much  easier for someone to grow up speaking  english to learn one of the languages of  india now this is not the only  difference in case you hadn't heard  india is a democracy  rightly or wrongly india has  fundamentally embraced the british  empire tradition of  you know parliamentary indirect  democracy now i can launch into a  critique of what's wrong with the  british model of democracy but if you're  comparing it to communist china you know  there's every reason for india to be  your strategic ally and your your  economic allies so on and so forth now  there's a whole other separate uh  question here by the way if you're  asking what i think and you're not which  is good what i think  what i think matters to only to a  limited extent you know i'm opposed to  this whole model of development that's  based on seeking out a partnership with  the countries of the lowest wages where  it's based on high-wage countries  cooperating with factory workers who are  paid a tenth of what the minimum wage  would be in their own country i think  that's the wrong approach to economic  development for everyone i think it's  immoral and i think it's unethical and  there are better ways to organize uh  economic development economic  development globally continentally on  every kind of intermediate scale of  planet  but uh setting that aside you know yeah  there are alternatives to a continued  economic alliance  with china however the question which is  a good question is is it possible after  joe biden everything will go back to  normal  with between america and china between  western europe  the answer is yes  and billions of dollars are being  gambled on that  billions of dollars  if you manufacture  stereo systems you're a german  corporation that makes high-end  electronic speaker components but in  germany you just make the core the most  important electronic component you have  german engineers doing that stuff in  germany at high price and then you send  that maybe you just send the schematics  you do quality cool you work with a  factory in china that does everything  else you have a factory in china that  makes the box that makes the enclosure  that does  it's not the only industry that works  that way the extent to which uh economic  cooperation defines the economies of  these countries and has done for 20  years it's impos of course it's more  than 20 years now but in the last 20  years especially the the dominance of  chinese manufacturing that is something  a lot of people are gambling billions of  dollars on uh continuing there are  alternatives while i was in taiwan  this is what two years ago now um  anyway just before anyway virological  conditions inspired me to move back to  canada  when i was in taiwan  very much the news from week to week was  questioning which companies were  shutting down which factories in china  so companies were making strategic  decisions soon as they close the factory  in china  and expand their factory in taiwan close  a factory in china move some of the  manufacturing to vietnam move some of it  to malaysia move some of it to taiwan  that stuff was going on and people were  really watching it and really happening  pardon me they were they were really  analyzing it step by step because their  own lives in taiwan were interconnected  so yeah uh now i would imagine in japan  also  and you know again the the depth of  cooperation was such that if you had a  factory in  japan or taiwan  many of them even if you finished making  the product in that country they would  send the product to china just to have  it put into a cardboard box and a bag  and have a sticker put on it and then  send it back in like that level of  supply chain integration so  disentangling those supply chains is a  tremendous thing so sorry guys this is a  digression but i hope i hope you uh  hope you enjoy it it's not it's not what  i wanted to make the video about  especially but you know yes there's  there's a trump i mean all right now sir  let's just let's just close out that  that topic  suppose you own one of those  corporations whether it's a company that  makes bicycles in taiwan or company that  makes  stereo  speakers in germany  and now i tell you look shut down  everything in china put it all in  mothballs  start operating out of africa instead we  want you to set up the factory in  ethiopia  now there are advantages to being an  ethiopian there are and i mentioned this  in youtube video a million years ago  there are examples of shoe factories  that did that that closed down in china  and opened up in ethiopia nothing  ethiopian people can manufacture shoes  ethiopian people can manufacture  computers and  again they may not even be manufacturing  them ethiopian people may be just taking  the speakers and putting them in a box  you know doing some of that manual labor  at the final stage uh as was being done  in china you can  do it okay but those guys they don't  want to do it they don't want to get off  their asses it's you know it's a huge  change in people's lives  they've gotten comfortable working with  china and that's why right now check the  tags on the clothes you're wearing china  has no advantage in manufacturing  clothes none  every item of clothing you're wearing  could be made in egypt egypt is where  they produce the cotton there's no  reason for it not to be but it's not  it's made in china and if you're wearing  a shirt that's egyptian cotton it'll be  cotton grown in egypt  exported to china made into clothes in  china export this is the world we  currently live in and joe biden is the  first president to admit that this is a  problem it's not just a problem for  america it's a problem for the future of  democracy it's a problem for the future  of planet earth in case you just joined  me hit the thumbs up button some more  people will see this video but in case  you just joined me at the beginning of  the video i did criticize joe biden's  position now moved past that i am not  saying that joe biden is taking a purely  principled uh position here on the side  of the angels for the advancement of  democracy sadly it is a somewhat cynical  and self-contradictory position he's  taken but um  he's not all wrong in broad brushstrokes  he is correct and  how old is joe biden 74 or something  i think  part of the magic of joe biden  is just that he is old enough to  remember how this whole farce unfolded  where are we at 74  79  that plastic surgery is paying off from  79. so if you're 79 years old he can  remember a time before china had this  economic power he can remember the whole  process especially under the clinton  presidency of how china was built up  into being this manufacturing superpower  by the united states by definite  specific decisions the united states  made he may or may not be able to  remember that era around 1971 1972 when  the strategic military alliance  iron triangle situation was being  established and unfolding you know i  don't know exactly how much of a  perspective has on it he has mentioned  repeatedly xi jinping is somebody he  knows face to face he met with and eat  lunch or dinner with xi jinping several  times he has a sense of the man not just  of the the communist political system he  knows what he's up against and he sees  it in the perspective of almost a  century  of you know  historical and political retrospect okay  and joe biden fundamentally made the  right choice  on china and it's a choice for whatever  reason  bill clinton couldn't make it or didn't  make it barack obama couldn't make it or  didn't make it right  so joe biden is right about that and  probably his advanced age helps him  may be wrong but everything else and  again we'll see we'll see what the cause  are so okay i'm going to move on to  the main the main point of this video  but let me say something else you know  in in china's favor and guys especially  on the left there's a lot of  demonization of businessmen okay  international businessmen are the tiny  minority of the population who really  have experience with these cultures and  with these political systems now  i think especially in the era of the  internet the stereotype is of a certain  kind of hippie  tourist on permanent vacation a  good-looking woman in a bikini who flies  around the different countries in the  world and takes photos of herself or  takes videos those people do not know  china those people do not know saudi  arabia those people do not know yemen i  realize that the left wants to demonize  someone like an oil executive who does  business in these countries  there are oil executives who  know  china  all right and like i'm being real with  you no false humility no ego trip they  know china in a way that i don't and you  won't and that these hippies on  instagram who just go on vacation and  take photos themselves at the beach they  don't they know what it's like to deal  with  the authorities to deal with the system  you know what they may also i mean oil  is not the best example whether it's oil  or mining or manufacturing these types  of international businessmen they may  also know about dealing with the local  uh  laborers with the poorest people in the  company the low-wage labor who are there  at the factory at the mine at the oil  rig or what have you and the issues and  problems that arise out of their their  situation their status i've spoken to  some of those people these are obviously  just casual conversations i've never  been in in business with them whatever  but i mean to give you an example  remember a long conversation i have with  a guy who was an executive in the mining  industry in china he specifically was a  health and safety expert for mining so  it's dealing with things like explosions  and cave-ins and it's a very  special field and he really knew the  face-to-face reality of the the people  earning minimum wage in those mines  and he didn't just go to he didn't just  meet them on the mine site he went to  their houses and he went to their  funerals and he met the widows and the  kid he really had that experience and  also by the way sorry money is a part of  this he was wealthy enough to pay a  translator to come with him you're like  yeah he didn't speak chinese generally  he didn't speak the specific dialect in  this part of china which is of course  they say dialect it's a totally  different language  you know he was able to really have some  kind of meaningful content with that  there's a lot of demonization of  businessmen and international  businessmen and businessmen do  influence government all right  but i'm just saying uh  there are businessmen who know how hard  it is to get anything done in saudi  arabia they're a businessman who know  how hard it is get anything done  in brazil you know hard it is to get  anything done to make something happen  in various parts of africa right and  there are businessmen who have been  willing to  reconcile themselves to the brutality of  the chinese political system because  they say these people know how to get  business done these people know how to  organize launch all right  if you look at a map of the world and  you divide it into democracy and not  democracy right  china is on the non-democratic side of  the equation if you just color in the  world  democracy  pro-democracy anti-democracy very simple  color coding  black and white  you can fill in all kinds okay then  china is in one and the same  anti-democratic morass  along with countries like saudi arabia  okay but what if instead you color code  the world in terms of people that  fundamentally have religious attitudes  and people that fundamentally have  modern secular scientific attitudes  ah  now all of a sudden china is the same  color as the united states of america  china is a country full of people with  modern secular scientific attitudes that  can get work done  you know and they are very business-like  there are a lot of things i complain  about with chinese culture  but they are they are very business-like  they are industrious  etc you know oh okay so yeah there are  deep reasons  why  frankly the power elite frankly the  millionaire elite frankly the  international business elite around the  world  have done so much business with china in  the last 20 years and why they want to  keep on doing business china  notwithstanding  the total lack of democracy in china and  a lot of those people will say to you oh  well if you think china has no no  democracy let me tell you stories about  my experience in indonesia let me tell  you stories about my experience in  myanmar some of these are guys i did  used to run a factory in myanmar i met  and spoke to one of those guys guy who  literally was an executive running a  factory in in myanmar for several years  uh white i think freddie you think it  was french you know you're white  european guy who ran a factory in  myanmar oh you know oh well if you think  it's bad here in china let me tell you  about my experience  in other developing countries around the  world it does get worse right and that  contextualizes china in a very different  way and  it's not the quality of education in  china it's not the quantity of education  in china it's not just saying chinese  people are better educated all right the  attitudes of chinese people that are in  large part cultivating created by their  government education system all right  they are incomparably  more modern more secular more scientific  than the attitudes in countries adjacent  on all sides including  indonesia saudi arabia et cetera sorry i  realized indonesia and saudi arabia are  not literally adjacent i'm sorry i  apologize by the way uh countries you  can find throughout asia that are very  much still mired in the attitudes and  assumptions of the of the dark ages  okay just glancing at your at your  comments here guys since i opened this  video saying there is really no way to  give a sense of the insanity of china's  new  propaganda position  on  democracy  without looking at the primary source  text i said start the video three texts  came out december 4th and december 5th  i'm reading the first of these now  quote  the constitution describes china  as a socialist country  governed by a people's democratic  dictatorship  that is led by the working class  and based on an alliance of workers and  peasants  period  now close quote i just want to point out  already  it would not be difficult  to organize a democratic system a system  of democracy that actually was based on  leadership by  the working class  if you wanted to do that communists have  never been interested in doing that  right very simple  in ancient athens you weren't allowed to  participate in democracy unless you had  about two years of participation in the  military  you can get into all the details in  different periods it wasn't quite that  simple but you were expected to pitch in  and do your part with the army one way  or the other in athens before you have  the status of a full citizen  i'm aware we could add some footnotes  about exactly what we know and what  aristotle says about it but any case  there was an expectation that you would  do military service and or pay money to  support the army for several years and  then you could participate you could  have a system of democracy in which  people are required to work in a factory  for five years before they can vote  before they can be elected if you really  think there's something magical about  the experience of working in a factory  for five years or for two years and you  want to have democracy but democracy  that reflects the experience of the  working class you can do it  you can do it and the nature of factory  work is such there's a lot of turnover  it wouldn't be as closed as an  aristocratic system of the dark ages  anyone could people might be motivated  to go and work in the factory for two  years and five years say okay well  i finished college now i'm going to work  in a factory for a couple of years and  so that i can become a full citizen and  produce university all right  it's worthwhile to point out the  attainability of that model of social  organization  precisely because china has never  attempted anything like that and they're  what what they are referring to  as a democratic dictatorship led by the  working class it has never it has never  been that it is not that now you know  right now  who has power  in china  who rules china and who votes in china  not the working class not the factory  workers not the peasant farmers  uh  already as simple as this first sentence  sounds sorry it's not the first sentence  in the whole document it's near the  start of the document it's just the  first sentence  but this we're already taking a step  from  uh  nonfiction into fiction that's quite uh  dangerous alright i continue the quote  the fundamental nature of the state is  defined by the people's democratic  dictatorship  china  upholds the unity  of democracy and dictatorship  to ensure the people's status  as masters of the country  on the one hand  all power of the state belongs to the  people to ensure that they administer  state affairs and manage economic and  cultural undertakings  through various channels  i'm going to skip a few words here i'm  sorry guys  on the other hand china takes resolute  action against any attempt to subvert  the country's political power or  endanger public or state security to  uphold the dignity and order of law and  safeguard the interests of people on the  state  period  democracy and dictatorship appear to be  a contradiction in terms  but together they ensure the people's  status as masters of the country period  a tiny minority is sanctioned in the  interests of the great majority and  dictatorship serves democracy  end of sentence end of paragraph end of  the chapter  or the section in the essay right  so  we are being told that china is a  socialist  dictatorship  we are told that china upholds the unity  of democracy and dictatorship i skipped  over some of the words were given  a completely irrelevant statement here  about how wonderful  the political system is in china  and then it is confessed that democracy  and dictatorship appear to be a  contradiction in terms  but in fact this is  the claim made by the the government of  china the use of the so i just mentioned  this document was not translated from  chinese and english it was written and  published in english it's its first  language is english the use of the word  sanctioned is also very strange there  you can look it up in the dictionary  sanction has several completely  different  meanings in english but they claim a  tiny minority is sanctioned  in the interests of the great majority  comma and dictatorship serves democracy  so as i say there's no way i can  summarize this  or give you a rational account of it  like a rational analysis of it that  isn't going to be extremely flattering  to it the the depths of irrationality  the the the insanity of what you're  being told here it has to be it has to  be seen  in the primary source text now  again i don't have to editorialize this  too much so here i'm just quoting from  different sections of text this isn't a  continuous reading uh quote  in china  there are no opposition parties  period  but china's political party system  is not a system of one party rule  nor is it one in which multiple parties  vie for power and govern in turn  period  all of these documents  are  dancing around the fact that in china  there are no elections  that nobody gets to vote  and making the  i don't know with with zero irony  making the  completely surreal claim that  nevertheless china is a democracy and as  i said in all three documents as a whole  the claim is that china is more of a  democracy in the united states america  that china's definition of democracy is  superior to the definition of democracy  offered by the united states  um  [Music]  very little mention of ancient greece  very little mention of ancient rome  very little mention of  england  india france france the home of the  french revolution  switzerland denmark right so it's it's  being set up as if there are two options  being presented to the world the  american definition of democracy and the  chinese definition democracy and they  make an argument  largely incoherent surreal and fictive  but i'll talk about the part of the  argument that does make sense they are  making an argument that china china is  not going to make a transition democracy  china already is a democracy and their  definition of democracy is the correct  one not the american one  okay another question from from ben  ben asks what does your channel name  mean in english do shirts ship to  vancouver in a good time so ben you may  not know we're walking distance from  vancouver where uh we're on vancouver  island you know yeah of course if you  walked you would drown don't don't walk  but we're we're right across the street  from you we have ordered those shirts  yeah you know the problem isn't time  it's money i have not gone back and made  a review video talking about those hey  melissa's wearing one you might come on  camera babe melissa is wearing one of  the complete coincidences she's wearing  one of the shirts right now yes  there you go uh oh sir you might getting  the hair out yeah he's not gonna buy the  hair  so yeah um  my my complaint is the shirts are maybe  about five dollars more expensive now  than when i first put them on the  website and that's not my choice so i do  i do not like uh  long story short i feel that that it's  too expensive what it is uh but things  like this are a really good deal so this  is a steel  mug that could last 100 years that's the  same logo  but you know i'm not saying the t-shirts  are bad obviously i mean  i can promote my own merchandise here  but when i first signed up they gave me  one price that i felt was just barely  okay i was like okay i'm not embarrassed  to offer this to my to my fans you know  um  and  now i think the price has gone up by  about five dollars canadian and i feel  it is embarrassing so the plain black  and white t-shirt is now 22  canadian  it's probably significantly less than us  dollars because shipping is also cheaper  there and it'll be cheaper in europe too  but i've gotta say  there's to me there's a big difference  between fifteen dollars and twenty  dollars if you're talking about a  t-shirt um  the hoodie anyway you guys can see the  website for yourself and draw your own  conclusions but yeah that is it i was uh  i was yeah  so yeah you'll see how it goes bad um  anyway i've dodged your question of what  does the what does the channel name mean  we must have a couple youtube videos but  don't worry nobody's gonna start a fist  fight with you over the t-shirt unless  unless you wear it in quebec  [Music]  [Laughter]  so uh do you want to give me a little  kiss asks i'm going to ask to answer  several of these questions in succession  uh we know a lot about threats to  american democracy do you have an  opinion on threats to  india's democracy uh well look  long story short  china  is not a threat to india's democracy  it's not right india can be completely  confident that way they're not really  afraid of chinese infiltration or  chinese-led communist revolutions or  china supporting  communist rebels within india which by  the way there are  armed insurrection groups within india  you can google the naxalites there's  ongoing armed communist revolution  within india even today even now but  they they do not have a problem with  china  you know expanding those into being a  really significant armed front india is  quite secure in that respect the way in  which they're not secure  is exactly looking out over the ocean  um  india has a naval base off the  southern tip of myanmar it's hard to  describe the geography frankly india and  australia both are very concerned about  the control of the seas about trade  um  it's  put it this way it's really the indian  empire it's the in india's position in  the world including over the broader  horizon of that ocean that they're  concerned about they're not concerned  about their own democracy now  when i say the indian empire  okay what about sri lanka  china put a foot down in sri lanka china  started setting up shop in sri lanka  they basically bought a harbor we're  trying to invest it in a harbor that  would control harbor in sri lanka the  same way they control the harbor and  greece but somewhat more so somewhat  more  political economic power there was the  beginning of china kind of taking over  sri lanka economically india was  terrified of that  now can india offer sri lanka a better  deal than china no  but  india felt that was a threat they're  like whoa whoa we can't have china  taking a step into china take a look at  nepal today  good luck figuring out what's going on  in nepalese politics which includes  nepalese communism  okay  so yeah india does have some some  concerns that way and i mean the big  story here i'm just not talking about  because i already made youtube videos  the big story is pakistan what happens  next with pakistan and china is in a  military alliance with pakistan against  india  so that for india is a big deal so you  know it's a good question what are  threats to indian democracy i do not  think anyone in india is concerned about  china subverting  uh democracy within india or those kinds  of internal threats but these these  external uh problems for india they are  so close and so immediate so dear into  self-interest you know  nepal is a foreign country but it's  adjacent sri lanka is a foreign country  and pakistan is an overlapping country  that they're perpetually in a state of  war with a low-level cold war what have  you  so yeah those are big deals and look you  know i'm guessing nothing is really  going to happen on the indian side until  the next elections until someone  replaces modi it seems that modi uh is a  real status quo player and i could say  the same about japan  when is japan going to really take an  anti-china position maybe never but  maybe maybe some number of years from  now it seems that you know joe biden is  leading  a very reluctant generation of  politicians in most of these other  countries including look at the  philippines you know  how anti-china is the philippines today  in 2021 2022. um the exception is  australia  australia has become they swung they  used to be very pro-china  and they figured out that that would  that would basically be the end of their  country and they they've swung to the  opposite extreme now where where  certainly the political elite in  australia is incredibly anti-chinese  they're incredibly worried about china  um so they went from reckless optimism  to a kind of reckless pessimism  and i do wonder to what extent the rest  of the world will catch up with  uh australia's somewhat hysterical  anti-chinese position  you know that  i'm not making uh any bold predictions  there uh it's possible it'll just be  australia in the united states that  really remain in this this way committed  to opposing china  okay j.j mccullough says this is a great  question jj's watching the show and he  writes in and says quote does the  chinese definition of democracy have any  adherence in the west so jj  looking back at the last 100 years  part of china's problem is that they  keep changing their propaganda line in a  way that alienates their supporters so  within this video i've given a lot of  emphasis to the bill clinton era  supporters of china i'm now going to  talk about sort of the communists before  after and during  um  but to start you know with that example  you can think of three categories here  is china  a democracy yes no is china  anti-democracy  yes no is china entitled to define or  redefine democracy to suit itself to use  its own sweet generous autogenous  definition  of democracy well okay so these are the  questions we're we're now dealing with a  bill clinton-era supporter of china they  were clinging to the belief that china  was not democratic but  it wasn't anti-democratic that it was  merely a backward country gradually  making progress toward democracy that  was the illusion right now again to be  fair the most flattering thing i can say  is there was a time when someone might  have said that about south korea and  some might have said that about taiwan  and it was true so well south korea  today it may not be a perfect democracy  but they're making progress and they  have problems with war and poverty give  them a chance  south korea paid off you know south  africa did make the transition right by  the way that doesn't mean it would have  been morally correct to  sorry  that doesn't mean that in the context of  the particular moment in south korea you  shouldn't be actively advocating for a  transition to democracy it doesn't mean  you just sit back and pass or let it  happen but there were some there were  some success stories so  someone who had bought into that  mythology and perhaps made millions of  dollars from it perhaps it was rewarding  for them personally to be on the  pro-china team starting in the bill  clinton now  today what position are they left in  china has alienated all the people who  supported that compromise view of  china's political stats  the same way that they've now alienated  all the people who supported um  uh the barack obama era  of china opening confucius institutes  around the world there was a very  different kind of compromise there was  like well  you know china supports  the understanding of appreciation of  chinese culture  you know there was a certain set of um  self-contradictory and stupid  you know compromise at the time in case  you didn't know people forget very  quickly during the barack obama era  china supported america's war in  afghanistan they were actively there  supporting the american side now they  pretend that they opposed america from  alpha to omega in afghanistan okay  now there would have been some people  not many but there were people in the  barack obama period who made their piece  with china and said well  china is our strategic partner against  the taliban against isis against these  other threats and problems  they would have seen a kind of you know  grand alliance grand strategy along  those lines and resigned themselves to  it or or accept it  now of course it gets much crazier if  you try to think of somebody who  supported mao zedong in the 1960s and  1970s who made those compromises who  accepted those excuses who bought into  that mythology and how they tried to  continue supporting china in the 1960s  70s 80s 90s 2000s it's impossible all  right any of the friends and supporters  of china outside of china again you can  easily imagine someone in australia  someone in california someone who tried  to be pro china from one era finds it  impossible to continue being pro china  in in the next era  um so the question is does the chinese  definition of democracy have any  adherence in the west zero absolutely  none and anyone who supported what china  used to say about democracy just a few  decades ago  they'll find themselves alienated from  this new definition that's been set down  today on december 4th just a few days  ago  december 4th 2021 this is the new  propaganda line and everyone either has  to line up with or get out this is a  feature of chinese politics  this is one of one of the distinctive  features of chinese politics since mao  zedong new campaign new propaganda line  new party line everyone has to agree  with it or go to jail or die you know  they've done this again and as i  mentioned uh about an hour ago  they are pretending that this new party  line has existed since the year 2012. so  in mythology in the make-believe land of  chinese propaganda this has already been  going on for nine years and immediately  there will be a little bit of truth to  that something happened you know some of  these initiatives probably started some  of the transition probably started in  2012 but really it is now in 2021 after  the experience of the presidency of  donald trump  and now the even colder relations with  the united states even more hostile  relations than it states uh under the  presidency of joe biden now this is the  this is the problem  so i would say though uh we live in an  era of  insincere allusions to  thucydides  if you guys don't know thucydides don't  spell it  um  relations between china united states  are insincerely um  you know linked to this notion of the  the thucydides trap this historian the  cities there is one  very interesting connection to the  philosophy of thucydides i suppose you  could say  thucydides says that  athens  supported democracy so the allies of the  athenians had to support democracy both  in athens and in their own city in their  own democratization of of grace  the advantage that sparta had  was that  instead sparta supported autonomy  right now this is autonomy partly in our  modern sense the word but partly in a  more ancient and etymological sense what  sparta supported was that each city  having its own laws having its own  system sparta their position allegedly  or ostensibly was to say oh okay you can  be an ally of sparta and be a democracy  but you can be an ally sparta and be a  dictatorship or a kingdom that they're  willing to make peace and make alliances  with all kinds of different  political systems now if you read the  whole of thucydides it is clear that  actually the spartan empire was terrible  for its allies that this really wasn't  true but this this was the ostensible or  propaganda line that they took so  what china is arguing for today can be  compared to the 1970s philosophy of  indigenismo  you know  um  a return to indigenism i'm saying  indigenism because it is associated with  latin america and so on this idea that  what really matters is having your own  indigenously developed  culturally continuous form of democracy  or dictatorship or whatever it's going  to be that political systems should  organically emerge from conditions that  are unique to  cuba unique to north korea unique to  china  you have to be an idiot to believe i  cannot imagine who is stupid enough to  believe that but it is it is broadly  similar to that argument made in favor  of the spartans and thucydides again not  an argument that thucydides actually  believes to read the text as well it's  very clear he's he's telling you that  the opposite is true that sparta was an  incredibly uh violent repressive  tyrannical ally to have  uh  and that they you know they did terrible  things to their allies  not to mention their enemies but  nevertheless that is that is  the most appealing or most legitimate  part  of china's argument so  um  today  in 2022  what does china's strategy mean for  myanmar  well obviously it means that china is  going to get into bed with a horrible  repressive military dictatorship and  they're not going to ask the burmese  people to do to take even the smallest  step imaginable toward democracy let  alone human rights or any other vague  you know vaunted notion of  21st century western liberalism sorry  you may have noticed this the first time  i used the term human rights in this  whole video i avoid i studiously avoid  these term human rights i think it's a  really counterproductive  abstraction you know  we should be honest and precise with  what it is we mean in politics uh  including what china means by democracy  for example okay so obviously china is  letting it be known loud and clear that  they will not put any pressure  whatsoever on  myanmar to become a democracy they will  not put any pressure on  indonesia or the philippines or nepal  or  [Music]  afghanistan  they are in a position with this  indigenous argument to say oh well the  government of the taliban is a unique  product of the cultural conditions and  history of afghanistan going back for a  thousand years so who are we who are we  in beijing who is the chinese government  to question or challenge or change or  demand modernization for afghanistan so  yes it is um  [Music]  convenient  to the political situation right now in  the year  2022  uh it is so convenient that it is  impossible to believe that it's not  cynical and in case you didn't know if  you have a long enough memory there was  a time when this was not china's  attitude um  china's attitude towards what the  government in vietnam should be china's  attitude toward what the government in  cambodia should be towards what the  government allows should be they used to  have quite a long robust history of  intervening in other countries affairs  and letting them know that they  absolutely ought to imitate and catch up  with the type of political order that  china had created for itself whether or  not they bothered to describe that so  and sincerely as a as a democracy  yeah  quote that's just a ham-fisted attempt  by the chinese to make it seem like  they're following len into the letter  it's a leninist so it's democratic  um several phrases are verbatim from  standard london translations  um there were some passages of this text  that i felt i i wrote down on the page  this hasn't changed since stalin said  stalin redmond some of it um  rings in my ears that brings back the  memory of of those excuses  um but some of it is new some of it is  different and is incredibly stupid i  mean it's not some kind of positive  innovation  um  you know  but yes i have to admit there is a long  history of totally surreal claims that  russia already had democracy and  therefore didn't need it even though  nobody is allowed to vote there are no  elections  there isn't more than one there's only  one political party i already read you  the passage where they they have to  offer this concession  and so forth  yeah so i've got a question about a book  i've held up on camera before it's still  read uh oliver shields is asking about  china's crony capitalism which is still  on the still on the shelf  [Laughter]  well i've been busy writing my own book  and admittedly you know i uh  i have quite a few books to read before  i would even theoretically get to that  one we'll see maybe it'll be on the  great list of books i books i  purchased but never read  all right uh another so i'm just reading  you a couple more short past year if you  guys have questions now's the time to  send them in because i am gonna this  this live stream will not be infinitely  long  quote oh so i should have introduced  this term the new propaganda claim is  that what china has now since the year  2012 again this is a little bit  different from leninist or stalinist era  propaganda but that starting in 2012  they transitioned to this  a system of so-called whole process  people's democracy so i should look up  the chinese terms of that this is not a  propaganda term i've seen before um so  it looks like we're starting a new a new  campaign a new era of claiming they have  whole process people's democracy but  they admit they did not have this system  during the era of mao zedong right this  is very much a xi jinping era innovation  now what it says in these texts about  the arab mao zedong hilariously is  positive  they give the maoist period of communism  credit for producing the firm foundation  of the democracy that communism day but  this is a paraphrase but this is quite  close to the text i read it recently  they claim that uh chinese democracy is  a tower that stands tall  because it was built on this demo this  foundation created in the the maoist the  more extreme communist era however as  much as they might praise the past they  are indicating that there was a decisive  break from the past in their 2012 and  now they have quote unquote whole  process people's democracy so what is  whole process people's democracy quote  whole process people's democracy is a  comprehensive and coordinated system  involving pieces  i'm sorry there are some errors in  english  ensuring that the people's voices are  heard and their wishes are represented  in every aspect of china's political and  social life whole process people's  democracy  prevents individuals from manipulating  the political process to win elections  comma and leaves no room for politicians  to shower promises while campaigning and  then break them all once elected yes  there is certainly no possibility for  politicians to make promises while  campaigning and then manipulate the  political process to win elections  because there are no campaigns there are  no elections there are no promises there  is no voting so all of this literature  just produced in december 4th and  december 5th or published  in the last few days it's written in  this very strange style of pretending  that china already has democracy and how  can anyone question that they have  democracy talking about china as if  there are elections and voting indeed as  if they have multi-party competitive  parliamentary democracy when nothing of  the kind is the case by the way um to  give an interesting example that is a  human face on it  most of you will know the actor jackie  chan  the martial arts actor jackie chan  jackie chan  is a sitting member of china's  equivalent to the senate  he's  his formal title is not senator but  jackie chan is the equivalent of a  senator in communist china nobody  elected him he probably could win an  election if they had democracy obviously  he's one of the most famous and popular  people in in china so it is somewhat  hilarious that when they try to include  uh popular and populist figures in their  political process they nevertheless are  nothing but faceless voiceless cogs in  the system i mean is you know he's not  able to influence or decide anything in  china and nobody who sits in that  council can but you get these crowd  shots you know they all vote  unanimously they all raise their hands  and support xi jinping unquestioning and  so on but every so often the camera  zooms in you know to show you oh there's  there's jackie chan they do that for a  few celebrities here's someone you might  recognize you know who's a member of  your supposedly democratic body um that  that represents you you know in the  public  all right um  so this was the this is the short  quotation that i i  wrote down in my own margin on paper  here that the excuses haven't haven't  changed since stalin  the communist party of china upholds  democracy  within the party  and practices democratic elections  decision making  and management and oversight they always  want to add management  how many times do the word management  appear in this document  they practice democratic elections  decision-making management and oversight  to better serve the development of  people's democracy the communist party  of china has improved its mechanism for  selecting and appointing officials  enabling outstanding individuals in all  sectors enter party leadership terms and  the government  comma ensuring that the leadership of  the party and the state rests in the  hands of those loyal to marxism comma  the party and the people so  again i don't know what to say except  that this is a sort of  self-contradicting  fiction  so you claim that the communist party  has  internal democracy so again completely  or explicitly admitting there aren't  elections there isn't democracy if the  country's all nobody elected xi jinping  for example there's not going to be an  election or a referendum or a vote or  what have you but the claim is that  there is never the less democracy than  the communist party  and then we're told that there's some  kind of  freedom of speech or democracy as long  as all of the people selected by the  party and i say selected not elected as  long as they of course remain loyal to  marxism and the party so  you know again i'm sorry there's no way  i can  summarize or analyze this to make it  seem more or less stupid than it is  it is profoundly utterly incoherent i  mean you know  this is the same contradiction we had  before they bluntly stated that  democracy and dictatorship may seem to  be a contradiction but they're not  because they've unified them in one  system this is really saying you have as  much  uh  democracy as you want as long as you  don't have any elections you don't have  any vote you don't have any choice you  have as much freedom of speech as you  want as long as you remain  totally obedient to just repeating the  communist party line remain loyal to  marxism uh so on and so forth now just  you just want to post one second sorry i  could do a whole separate video on this  i could have opened the video with this  of course it's important to talk about  what democracy really is in contrast to  this phony definition again it's hard to  call it phony this self-contradictory  nonsensical definition advanced by china  it's also important to recognize  non-democratic systems that exist within  western societies okay  when  a famous movie director has a heart  attack and dies  this happens all the time i hear about  the news there's someone who was gonna  make a movie  the movie was gonna cost millions of  dollars and some announcements were  already made for this movie maybe the  the lead actor had already been  announced some of them oh there's going  to be a new movie starring this person  with so many millions of dollars and  this person is going to be the director  then suddenly the director has a heart  attack and dies  or even more commonly someone on  instagram says that he's guilty of  sexual transgressions and he's canceled  and he has to be fire i mean we live in  an era when people get fired in  hollywood before kind of okay there's  some kind of scandal  some people might say  there is the democratic process of  appointing a new director like from a  chinese perspective it's much more  democratic than anything that's ever  happened in the history of the commerce  party think about what happens you know  there is there's a role for public  opinion whenever this happens there are  people who send in emails and make posts  on social media and they may even have  kind of events the streets oh  this is the guy we want to be the new  director who should be the new director  for batman or who should be the new  director for star wars or star trek  you know there is a kind of public  discourse and i think genuinely the  corporations actually listen to that pay  attention they say oh all these fans  want this person to make the movie all  these fans want this person to take over  the movie and you have a series of  meetings a series of consultations that  are closed door but that are reported on  to the public and the the public kind of  participates a little bit all right now  i think everyone in this audience just  because you speak english you will all  agree with me when i say that is not  democratic  okay there is no democracy whatsoever  when a large corporation decides who is  going to be the main actor in a movie or  who is going to be the director  when they when they decide to commit  millions of dollars to making a film  it's not democratic  but it resembles democracy  more  than the system of government the  chinese are claiming as democratic here  you know so i think i think that's  really very important i mean if you're a  high school teacher thing if you explain  this to teenagers or explain to someone  who's a fully groomed over some if  you're explaining this to someone who  hasn't really spent years thinking about  and researching politics it's worthwhile  to reflect seriously on non-democratic  institutions and systems within the  western world how we organize hospitals  is not democratic how we organize  universities is not democratic but how  the walt disney corporation  manages  selecting a director for a motion a  major motion picture  it's not democratic  but there is there is consultation there  is debate sometimes the companies change  their mind at first they appoint one  director and then everyone in the public  says no they don't want that guy and  then they change  it it happens there's some response to  public interest right  but it's still really important to  recognize that that's that's not  democracy and the argument the chinese  government is making here is that any  public involvement whatsoever no matter  how fleeting minor or shallow  renders the whole system democratic like  because you can't claim  that uh  you know the opinion of the masses the  opinion of the people doesn't doesn't  matter in china what at all whatsoever  that somehow therefore the whole system  should be recognized as democracy and as  i say they're making the claim no matter  how absurd they're making the claim that  uh  their definition of democracy is correct  and the american definition of democracy  is incorrect and is even an  institutional failure all right so just  giving you another uh short quote of how  surreal uh these documents get  quote advancing democratic elections  consultations decision making management  and oversight  it's the exact same phrase again  management and oversight as if that's  what democracy's about right  comma progressing electoral democracy  and consultative democracy side by side  and expanding the people's orderly  political participation and the scope of  democracy this is they describe going on  in china right now  you know  what does this mean of course obviously  we can sit here and just say this means  absolutely nothing  how can  china talk about  progressing electoral democracy there  are  no elections they now it's possible to  have a system of government where you  don't have multiple political parties  but you at least have to have multiple  rival candidates you know  even in sorry in some countries you  they're just they stand as individuals  without a without a party but regardless  you either have to have rival  individuals or rival parties you have  nothing like that in china in china you  do not even have rival ownership of  newspapers all newspapers are controlled  by the one and only political party that  controls the whole process but so we're  taking a step you know into the into the  surreal here and again to to give it  context they think they're advancing  their notion of democracy to defend  themselves against  um  the attack that joe biden is is pressing  against them well what's going to be the  final outcome here is this going to  legitimate or delegitimate uh chinese  democracy and chinese foreign policy so  this is a this is a relatively coherent  uh quote from the paper quote  democracy is not a decorative ornament  but an instrument for addressing the  issues that concern the people  whether a country is democratic depends  on whether its people are truly the  masters of the country  whether the people have the right to  vote  and more importantly the right to  participate extensively now there's a  semicolon there it's not the innocence  i'm going to stop close one  whether the people have the right to  vote  is is in there all right but the claim  made again and again in these in these  documents  [Music]  is that america has mistakenly  come to believe that one person one vote  is the whole of the definition of  democracy and that in fact it is america  that is not a true democracy whereas  china is but  i i again i'm not putting these words in  there they they include here as one of  the criteria for the definition of  democracy whether the people have the  right to vote and there is no promise  that china is going to become a  democracy the claim is that they already  are and that they can't be forced to  change by america or or anyone else that  they're already supposedly more  democratic than america ever has been  reported  all right um  quote whole process people's democracy  integrates process-oriented democracy  with results-oriented democracy  procedural democracy with substantive  democracy  directs democracy with indirect  democracy and people's democracy with  the will of the state  it is a model of socialist democracy  that covers all aspects of the  democratic process and all sectors of  society period it is a true democracy  that works period and that is the thesis  statement of the uh  of the  document and the title is chinese  democracy china colon democracy that  works  all right guys  okay uh  perfectly reasonable comment from oliver  quote doesn't any dictatorship or any  political system rely on some kind of  participation yes and again i think  that's that's a sort of misconception  that helps to  shore up support for china such as it is  um  a lot of people don't realize that in a  country like egypt i mean i do not  consider egypt the democracy but yes  there are meetings there are  consultations there is a role for um  public opinion and you could certainly  make an argument that there's more  freedom of the press there's more of  sort of the newspapers criticizing the  government the government respond to it  in a country like egypt than there is in  communist china  so there are many non-democratic  countries where you can still say you  know vox populi box dais you can look at  kingdoms you just look at you know  monarchies where there is still public  consultation and concern about you know  uh what people think you know so on and  so forth but you know the great democrat  pardon me  the great advantage democracy has is  that it can change okay the united  states of america was built on  slavery and racism okay  and they changed they changed and they  changed in large part because they  elected new people and they passed new  laws you know there were really deep  fundamental changes in the united states  of america china can't do that china  can't change china is a one-party state  committed to one ideology now again  how different would america be  if you would had a tyrannical one-party  state government as recently as the  1950s you know we have to go back that  that far and you didn't have you know  you didn't have this potential this  possibility through criticism through  debate  yes you know freedom of speech freedom  of press through democracy at every  level um you know to bring about  profound sweeping  institutional political and legal change  so there's a lot wrong with the united  states of america i mean the other  documents i read there are pages and  pages of criticism the united states  america melissa heard me laughing as i  was reading it it's like yes well  you know for example the government of  china is complaining that in america  twitter and facebook are too tightly  censored that you don't have real  freedom of speech real freedom of uh you  know real freedom of  uh  political discourse on the internet in  america for example the censorship  that's seen on on twitter and facebook  yes well there is some censorship of the  internet in the united states of america  but shall we compare that to the level  of the internet in china in this same  way it was all just laughable um look  you know  i do not feel that the election of  george w bush in the year 2000 was a  legitimate election if you weren't alive  there was demonstrable corruption and  incompetence in the state of florida  especially elsewhere too i feel that the  first election of george w bush was  illegitimate however  it was more legitimate than any election  that has ever occurred in communist  china ever so like when you're putting  it in that comparative context even a  bad election in america like the first  election george w bush seems you know  fantastic hilariously the the chinese  communist party's publications from just  the last few days they attack also  the system of primaries that bernie  sanders uh contested in  so you know they say it was unfair and  crooked the primaries that selected  hillary clinton  over uh bernie sanders so what is that  now more than eight years ago 10 years  ago or something i don't know yeah yeah  because that was when he was against  hillary that's not uh  was that 2016 oh okay getting old all  right um  anyway uh  the  you know  the system of primaries within the  democrat party the united states of  america is indeed deeply flawed it needs  improvement and the experience of bernie  sanders  both in contesting the primary against  hillary clinton and against uh  joe biden it  illustrates some problems  guess what oh that is still a more  legitimate political process democratic  process than anything china has ever  attempted implemented design dreamed of  it's still better than anything even set  out in theory in these documents that  are boasting that china already has the  best democratic system in the world as  the result of the progress of 5 000  years of cultural development now to be  fair to china  their claim is not that chinese  democracy  is the best system of democracy for  everyone on planet earth it's this is an  indigenous  movement this is indigenismo you know  their claim is that china has developed  the best possible system of democracy  for the chinese people and that in the  same way all of these other countries  and all these other cultures should be  allowed to develop their own indigenous  system democracy ah yes well hmm  what if  the people of tibet were allowed to  develop their own system of democracy  their own definition of democracy that  resulted from their culture and their  language which is also 5000 years old i  can't tell you this guys but the clock  started at the same time for the whole  of planet earth if china has 5 000 years  of history tibet has 5000 years of  history yes well if you think democracy  should uniquely emerge from local  cultural conditions and that its  legitimacy should not be tested by an  objective standard created by the united  states of america they definitely don't  want it to be judged against the  standard created by ancient athens or  ancient rome well then we get into some  some interesting questions hmm how how  about taiwan those people are just as  chinese as you they're they're kind of  more chinese in some ways in case you  didn't know you know the people of  taiwan also have 5 000 years of history  they also speak the chinese language  they read chinese literature they read  it more than people do in communist  china they're equally as familiar with  confucius and laozi and all the classics  of the han dynasty and before you know  the warring states period they they know  all that stuff at least as well as  chinese communists do probably more it's  a more conservative continuous example  of chinese culture  what can we say about taiwan's model of  democracy then as a product of their own  indigenous culture in history why does  that why does that work so well what can  we say about south korea what can we say  about japan what can we say about even  mongolia right how about thailand i mean  this is so easily controvertible  for china's bordering nation states and  of course you know even within china  yeah yeah have you ever heard of this  you've heard of  xinjiang you ever heard of this  well they have their own language they  have their own culture they've been  there for five thousand years  hmm  so yeah this can be applied and the the  point is right now i mean it's sickening  and it's shocking but china is cutting a  deal with the taliban china is just  going to try to rub america's face in  their defeat in afghanistan and they're  probably going to do that in  syria they're probably going to get into  bed with iran to the greatest extent  that they can their current strategy is  basically to team up with america's  enemies anywhere and everywhere they can  and make life difficult for u.s foreign  policy  okay  um so yes cynically this new definition  of democracy can be deployed to justify  a partnership between the taliban the  most hated the most despicable  conservative muslim  regime in the world and chinese  communism which is nominally atheist and  actively anti-islamic for example in  xinjiang but on the other hand it has  some other you know worrying  implications regionally globally and  even within china itself  okay guys uh  you know the implicit point of this  video you know i haven't had to state  until now and i don't really need to  state it before i had to hit the end and  the stream button but you know um  if you're overweight  there is no point  debating the definition of overweight  wow wow i mean you know how do you  define right so you got like a spectrum  here  you got  thin and you got fat and that's it's  binary it's a spectrum you're thin  you're thin you're thin then you gain  too much weight in your fat right let's  find out  well you know um  what if we have a few different kind of  gray areas all right you're thin what  about people who are  husky  do we have to say fat do we have to over  couldn't we have couldn't we have husky  you know can't we redefine obesity  redefine being overweight can't we you  know now look you can keep getting  fatter and fatter and you can keep  making up new excuses and you can keep  putting words in quotation marks and  keep challenging the definitions you  know at what point is obesity obesity  you know  well you know over the centuries the  meaning of the term obese has changed in  different cultures it's changed uh  here's the average body weight for an  american of my height therefore if i  weigh less than the average man of my  height i can't possibly be obese i can't  possibly you can keep moving the goal  post you can keep changing the  definitions of terms right and it's  utterly counterproductive you're never  going to prove anything about obesity  you're never going to prove anything  about democracy you're never going to  prove anything but your own weight or  your own fitness or your own health  right all you're gonna do is reveal the  depth of your own intellectual  dishonesty your own immorality frankly  all right so china has opened the door  to  redefining democracy endlessly to suit  its own  short-term  self-interest and the bottom line is a  rose by any other name would smell as  sweet a communist dictatorship by any  other name would smell as foul there  were people who believed that china  would make the same kind of transition  we saw in south korea the same kind of  transition we saw in taiwan and other  positive examples around the world there  were people who thought they would go  through a series of gray areas from  dictatorship to democracy there were  people who wanted to believe that china  was neither fat nor thin but somewhere  in between  and that we could all just set sit back  and let it happen all right and the  truth is that the situation in taiwan  today is  worse  than  japanese fascism  huh  oh god okay well no edits no edits  thanks melissa's manager  little slip there the reality is the  situation in beijing the situation in  communist china is worse than japanese  fascism i'm not wanting to compare  taiwan to japanese fashion fascism but  japan the situation in communist china  is worse than japanese fascism in world  war ii  there is a real question what if america  had never gone to war with japan what if  japan had never entered into an alliance  with nancy germany there's a parallel  universe where japan just pursued  building its own empire without entering  into an alliance with nazi germany do  you think japan would have remained a  fascist dictatorship forever if you've  actually studied the history they'd  already had elections they already had  democracy they already had a diet as  they called it the history of democracy  in japan is longer than the history of  fascism they moved into this fascist  period after already having democracy so  there's actually an interpretation of  history that without america conquering  japan without the american army  literally writing a new constitution for  japan japan could have made its own  transition back to democracy right  the situation in china is much more  extreme there is no reason to think that  china can make a transition from  dictatorship to democracy  without  being conquered  or without an unimaginably violent civil  war  sadly china remains in the category of  countries that are not merely  non-democratic but are anti-democratic  it's in the same category of countries  as saudi arabia  and thus saudi arabia and china both  should be enemies of the united states  they should be the target of a worldwide  pro-democracy conspiracy and it is only  now  in 2021  that joe biden is putting together the  rudiments of an international alliance  to promote democracy against  dictatorship  something that they could have done back  in 1971 and then the creation of china  as we now know it this manufacturing  behemoth  never would have happened